# s23 

## url
https://microservices.io/patterns/decomposition/decompose-by-subdomain.html
## tiny url
https://tinyurl.com/api-ddd-s23
## archive url
https://bit.ly/3op60SF
## title
Pattern: Decompose by subdomain Context
## source code
no
## example
yes
## source type 
Practitioner Audience Article
## author type
Practitioner
## references

**AXIAL CODING TRACE**: source and references
``` python
s23 = CClass(source, "s23", values={
    "title": "Pattern: Decompose by subdomain Context",
    "url": "https://microservices.io/patterns/decomposition/decompose-by-subdomain.html",
    "archive url": "https://bit.ly/3op60SF",
    "author type": "Practitioner",
    "type": "Practitioner Audience Article",
    "example": True,
    "source code": False})
``` 

# coding
> [SKIP] ...
>Problem
> How to decompose an application into services? 
>Forces
>The architecture must be stable
>Services must be cohesive. A service should implement a small set of strongly related functions.
>Services must conform to the Common Closure Principle - things that change together should be packaged together - to ensure that each change affect only one service
>Services must be loosely coupled - each service as an API that encapsulates its implementation. The implementation can be changed without affecting clients
>A service should be testable
>Each service be small enough to be developed by a “two pizza” team, i.e. a team of 6-10 people
>Each team that owns one or more services must be autonomous. A team must be able to develop and deploy their services with minimal collaboration with other teams.


**OPEN CODING TRACE:**
- stable: api stability, non-brittle interfaces
- cohesive / coupling
- modifiability of apis
- last points refer to team & design and implementation effort related aspects

**AXIAL CODING TRACE:**
add codes to s: 
``` python 
    '''
    domain_model_mapping_decision, interface_bounded_context_as_API,
    expose_bounded_contexts_as_APIs, expose_selected_bounded_contexts_as_an_API,
    api_modifiability, design_and_implementation_effort, brittle_interface, api_stability, 
    coupling_of_clients_to_server
    '''

```

>
>> Solution
>
>Define services corresponding to Domain-Driven Design (DDD) subdomains. DDD refers to the application’s problem space - the business - as the domain. A domain is consists of multiple subdomains. Each subdomain corresponds to a different part of the business.

>Subdomains can be classified as follows:

>    Core - key differentiator for the business and the most valuable part of the application
>    Supporting - related to what the business does but not a differentiator. These can be implemented in-house or outsourced.
>    Generic - not specific to the business and are ideally implemented using off the shelf software

>Examples

>The subdomains of an online store include:

>    Product catalog
>    Inventory management
    Order management
    Delivery management
    …

>The corresponding microservice architecture would have services corresponding to each of these subdomains.

**OPEN CODING TRACE:**
- decomposing with decoupling purpose refers to the "Introduce and Expose an Additional Interface Bounded Context as an API" 
  if focus on a core  subdomain
- else focus on selected or all bounded contexts (supporting, generic)

**AXIAL CODING TRACE:**
add codes to s: 
``` python 
    '''
    domain_model_mapping_decision, interface_bounded_context_as_API,
    expose_bounded_contexts_as_APIs, expose_selected_bounded_contexts_as_an_API,
    '''

```