# s 
28
## url
https://auth0.com/blog/building-real-time-web-applications-using-wolkenkit/
## tiny url
https://tinyurl.com/api-ddd-s28
## archive url
https://bit.ly/375Klc9
## title
Building Real-Time Web Applications using wolkenkit
## source code
yes
## example
yes
## source type 
Practitioner Audience Article
## author type
Practitioner
## references


**AXIAL CODING TRACE**: source and references
``` python
s28 = CClass(source, "s28", values={
    "title": "Building Real-Time Web Applications using wolkenkit",
    "url": "https://auth0.com/blog/building-real-time-web-applications-using-wolkenkit/",
    "archive url": "https://bit.ly/375Klc9",
    "author type": "Practitioner",
    "type": "Practitioner Audience Article",
    "example": True,
    "source code": True})
``` 

>TL;DR: This article will show you how to build real-time web applications using wolkenkit, a CQRS and event-sourcing framework for JavaScript and Node.js, that perfectly matches DDD. See the repository for the sample code.

>wolkenkit is an open-source framework for JavaScript and Node.js that empowers you to develop backends and APIs, focusing on what's really important: solving actual real-world problems. You model the domain, and wolkenkit automatically provides everything else you need: A real-time HTTPS and web-socket API, JWT-based authentication, authorization, persistence with time-traveling, …

>wolkenkit is developed by the native web, a company that offers highly professional consulting, training and development services for JavaScript, Node.js, and related technologies. For details on wolkenkit have a look at its documentation, browse questions on StackOverflow or join the wolkenkit Slack team.

>Software development is not an end in itself. Instead, software gets written to solve actual real-world problems. Unfortunately, this regularly fails. One of the most significant reasons for this is not technology, but poor communication in interdisciplinary teams. Domain experts, developers, and designers have never learned to talk and listen to each other.
>Introducing domain-driven design
[skipped]

**OPEN CODING TRACE:**
- introducing DDD, modeling, coding models, cqrs
- event based model for DDD
- cqrs for high-scalability
- data consistency is discussed


>From a domain point of view, everything is now implemented that is needed for the read side of the application.

>In fact, it's all done with that! You have already built the entire application including event sourcing and CQRS, simply by having defined a file structure and having written the code for your domain! But what about the technical aspects?
Introducing wolkenkit

>This is where wolkenkit comes into play: it is an open-source framework for JavaScript and Node.js that uses event sourcing and CQRS, and that perfectly matches domain-driven design.

>    "wolkenkit is an open-source framework for JavaScript and Node.js that uses event sourcing and CQRS, and that perfectly matches domain-driven design (DDD)."
    Tweet This

>Once you have modeled and built your domain, wolkenkit automatically provides everything else you need: a real-time HTTPS and web-socket API, JWT-based authentication, authorization, persistence, …

>In other words, this means that you don't have to do anything for the technical aspects. Furthermore, it helps to keep your code clean, since you don't have to mix domain code and technical code.


**OPEN CODING TRACE:**
- CQRS, expose CQRS commands and queries, 
- eventual consistency support
- events as state transitions (later all event pub/sub)

**AXIAL CODING TRACE:**
add codes to s: 
``` python 
    '''cqrs, no_cqrs_API, cqrs_API, cqrs_decision, expose_domain_events_as_state_transitions,
                 operation_design_decision, expose_domain_events_via_feeds_or_pub_sub, eventual_consistency_support,
                 eventual_consistency, scalability, data_consistency
    ''
```

[skippe] detailed examples

**OPEN CODING TRACE:**
- in them aggregates are discussed as resources.

**AXIAL CODING TRACE:**
add codes to s: 
``` python 
    '''aggregate_roots_as_API_resources, aggregate, designing_API_resources_decision
    ''
```